# Java Concurrent Utilities.

## Exercises:

### Exercise 1 - Message channel with locks and conditions

Rewrite the Message channel application from Lesson 3, Using ReentrantLock and Conditions for synchronization.

### Exercise 2 -  Message channel with Blocking Queue

Rewrite the Message channel application, using a Blocking queue for synchronization between the message consumers and 
producers. Experiment with some variations. For example, you can try queues of different sizes. Also, you can try more 
than one message consumers.

### Exercise 3 - Sorting arrays in parallel

Create an array of double, populating it with random numbers. Then use the Arrays.copyOf() method to create a duplicate 
of the array. Use Arrays.sort() to sort the first array and Arrays.parallelSort() to sort the duplicate array. Measure 
the time for the execution of the two algorithms. Experiment with different array sizes and see on your computer, when 
the parallel sort algorithm becomes more efficient.

### Exercise 4 - Divide and conquer

Let us check if the values, generated by Math.random() are evenly distributed in the interval [0,1). Create an array of 
doubles of size 1 million. Populate it with random numbers using Math.random(). If you would like to learn something 
extra, see if you can figure out how to use Arrays.parallelSet() for that purpose. Then create a task that implements 
the Callable interface and checks the number of values in a given interval. Create ten instances of the task, each one 
counting the number of values in the intervals [0,0.1), [0.1,0.2), ..., [0.9, 1). Submit the ten tasks to an ExecutorService. 
After the tasks finish, collect the results and print what is the percentage of the total values in each interval. 